Shubham Tiwari is an experienced software engineer with over 8+ years of experience, based in London, UK. He is gifted at translating client requirements into technical development plans and turning them into aesthetically awesome websites. A team player who communicates productively with both technical and non-technical personnel. Friendly provider of deep programming knowledge and invaluable final products. Well-proven analytical, communication, and decision-making skills, with the ability to learn fast, innovate, and deliver results under tight deadlines.

At Directline Group as Senior Software Engineer (Oct 2023 - Present), he developed robust, maintainable front-end web applications using Angular and React. He implemented automated testing using Playwright, increasing test coverage up to 90% and reducing post-release bug reports by 80%. He collaborated with UX designers to refine and translate designs and wireframes into high-quality code, resulting in increased user productivity. He also contributed towards Design System implementation using Web Components used across the organisation and refactored old Angular apps upgrading from Angular 8 to Angular 18.

At Rackspace (Sep 2021 - Oct 2023) as Senior Software Engineer, Shubham revamped legacy web applications using the latest tech stack, achieving up to 70% faster user experience. Worked closely with the design team to develop a common Design System. Collaborated with backend developers, QA, product designers, and product management to implement new features. Delivered high-quality web apps with TDD, unit and end-to-end tests. Used Docker, GitHub Actions, and Terraform to facilitate CI/CD pipeline workflows.

At EY (Nov 2019 - Sep 2021), as Senior Software Engineer, he designed and developed a customer-facing web application that reduced manual efforts and increased productivity by 90%. Mentored junior developers improving team performance. Developed large-scale web apps in JavaScript/TypeScript with React and Redux. Worked on a critical environment project to evaluate the carbon footprint of tech.

At Tavant Technologies (Aug 2018 - Nov 2019) as Software Engineer, he adjusted design parameters to incorporate new features, worked on a large-scale agriculture domain project, integrated web apps with AWS services like Lambda, EC2, and S3 in an Agile environment, and created stunning data visualizations using AmCharts, ChartJs, and D3.

At Esri India (Jun 2016 - Aug 2018) as Software Engineer, he worked with GIS technologies along with front-end and back-end development. Enhanced application security for various customer-facing apps achieving up to 80% more security against cross-scripting and DDoS attacks. Contributed to backend development while learning backend technologies and databases.

Shubham holds a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science from UPES (Jan 2012 - Dec 2016).
